In this project, I will explore two datasets in order to uncover the public’s sentiments in regards to the Coronavirus over the time course of the outbreak. Given the significant influence of popular news on the public’s understanding of current events, I expect that when the media contains more negative information about the issue, the public’s perception of the COVID-19 virus will be more negative. On the flipside, when the news presents a more positive outlook of the situation, perceptions may become more positive. In order to get an idea of the sentiment that popular news may evoke in people during this crisis, I will focus on analyzing data that news outlets commonly use when announcing the status of the outbreak. The two common types of data used by news outlets that I will explore are the current death toll due to the virus and the number of confirmed cases of the virus. I also have chosen to examine the number of cases of people recovering from the virus, which may depict the Coronavirus pandemic as a conquerable feat, which may then translate into a more positive public sentiment. In order to measure the public’s sentiment, I will conduct text analysis of an online forum, Reddit. By implementing relevant analyses of the datasets gathered from the chosen data sources, it will be possible to examine how shifts in the sentiment of popular news can then influence the public’s perception of an issue. Ultimately, this project will shed light on the public’s perception of the Coronavirus and investigate the validity of some possible explanatory causes. During this time of substantial uncertainty, it is essential to strive for a better understanding of how people's emotions may be affected by this outbreak. For example, negative affective states caused by the imminent feeling of danger may encourage people to act more reactionary, like hoarding necessary supplies and consequently disregarding those who are more in need of those resources. An essential step for tackling this pandemic will require a more robust understanding of its possible social implications, which can be achieved via an analysis of the data of the Coronavirus cases and cross-referencing it with a subsequent analysis of a social media platform’s data focused on the Coronavirus.
